>> Mike North: The and and or operators.
So I've created two types here and
one is called HasPhoneNumber,
one is called HasName.
They have something in common and they
have something that's different, right?
So think of this as a Venn diagram, right?
They both have name but
one has email and one has phone.
So, here I've created a piece of
code that basically rolls the dice,
does a math.random.
And half the time, it's gonna
initialize it to HasPhoneNumber.
Half the time,
it's gonna to initialize it to HasEmail.
And, in fact, TypeScript should be able
to figure out, well unfortunately,
that's why I left that there.
It's the same type, but
it just makes it ugly, right?
So here, we get the nice names,
HasEmail or HasPhoneNumber.
We're moving that, okay, I mean,
that's It's kinda accurate in a way, but
like not really what I was after,
and way more verbose.
>> Mike North: So
note that once we have this contact info
variable, we can only access name.
So, think of this as if you have this
sort of Venn diagram, and it could
be one side or the other, we are looking
at the intersection between the two.
We're looking at sort of that lens.
We can only access things that
are guaranteed to be there.
And regardless of whether
this is HasName or
HasPhoneNumber, name is going to be there.
So that's why we can access name and
only name.
Union types, they use this and
operator and percentage worth and.
And this is saying effectively.
Other contact info is both a HasEmail and
also a HasPhoneNumber.
So it must be initialized with
everything these two shapes have.
The union, this will be the full
Venn diagram, both bubbles.
So if we were missing one thing you
would say, Property 'phone' is missing.
>> Mike North: And because we're
guaranteed to have all three of these
things, we can access all three of them,
right?
There's no ambiguity, there's no either or
it's definitely both.
>> Mike North: So in this,
sorry I left that there.
That was an example from a previous run.
So just to recap here,
we covered variables.
We looked at how typescript could
infer the type of variable through
it being initialized.
We looked at arrays and tuples.
Those are the ordered data structures.
One, the array is arbitrary is length.
The other, tuple, has a fixed length and
a specific type for
each element in the tuple.
We looked at object types.
And really the only thing you have to
remember there is question mark means
optional.
And then finally,
the equivalent of or and and
in the type world,
the intersection and union operators.